# Postdoctoral position in *Drosophila* evolutionary genomics

## Summary

The Emerson lab at UC Irvine ([emersonlab.org](/jobs/sv_postdoc_2017.html)) is soliciting candidates for an NIH funded postdoctoral position. The position will broadly fit into the category of *Drosophila* comparative population genomics with a focus on structural variation. The main focus of the project is to understand how mutation, natural selection, and genetic drift affect the evolution of genome structure. Candidates will ideally have interests broadly relevant to these themes but will also be offered opportunities to pursue their own interests in evolutionary genetics. The Emerson lab is very collaborative, and we encourage those who are interested to consider collaborative projects with other UCI faculty. See our [Collaborators page](/collaborators).

The successful candidate will have a PhD in the following or related fields: evolutionary genetics, bioinformatics, computational biology, statistics, or experimental genomics (especially high throughput sequencing). The Emerson lab is affiliated with the department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, the Center for Complex Systems Biology, and the Center for Evolutionary Genetics at UCI as well as the Southern California Evolutionary Genetics Meeting. Interested applicants should send their applications to J.J. Emerson here: http://bit.ly/JRdXfY Applications should include: a CV; a research statement explaining the candidate’s previous research experience and future research objectives; and contact information of two or more references. For more about jobs in the Emerson lab and academic and professional environment at UCI, visit: http://bit.ly/JRdXfW J.J. Emerson Assistant Professor Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Center for Complex Biological Systems University of California Irvine http://bit.ly/1cQIF2G Contact information: http://bit.ly/JRdXfY jj.emerson@gmail.com 

